Name: Connor Lord, connor_lord@student.uml.edu, ID: 01409362
Partner: Orion Dalton, orion_dalton@student.uml.edu, ID: 01375709
Computer Science Student, UMass Lowell
Comp.4610, GUI Programming I
Final Project: creating an online photo portfolio.


This project was to create a website for a friend that acted as an online photo 
portfolio. The portfolio had to be able to be viewed with thumbnails of images 
that, when clicked on could then display the full image. The images had to be 
able to be stored in a directory so that they could be kept. The ability to add 
and delete photos should have been included in this process, but unfortunately I 
couldn't quite get this feature to work, even with the most simple upload code. 
It is unfortunate that I let my partner down. The website needed to have an editor 
that could alter the image and then be able to save it to the user's machine. The 
application also needed to be able to share to social media as well as to other 
devices.

We started this project by hashing out what needed to be accomplished, as well as
what the layout of the website should be. We decided that we should have a row of 
tabs at the top of our page, where all of the tabs would accomplish an important 
function of the project. These tabs were: Photos (to display all current photos), 
Add Photo (to add another photo to the gallery), Delete Photo (to erase a photo
from the gallery), and finally Edit Photo (to make changes to a photo). To display
the photos in the Photos tab, we decided on using a lightbox, where photos could be
clicked on and a modal would open up to display the chosen image. The lightbox would 
then have arrows pointing left and right to tranfer to the preceding and following 
photo, and x at the top of the modal to erase itself and bring the view back to the
webpage, and thumbnails at the bottom of the modal that could be used to change the 
display to other images. Both the Add Photo and Delete Photo tabs are unfortunately
unoperational, as with both my partner and I attempting to create the simplest code
for uploading and deleting repeatedly resulted in failure. The Edit Photo tab took 
the most work and collaboration between my partner and I. I managed to find a decent 
plugin when searching for image editors, Camanjs. After learning how to use the editor,
I created a webpage that would let the user edit a single image and save the image to
their machine. The code that I based my editor on had custom filters on it that I 
decided to use for the project. My partner then managed to take the application I made 
with camanjs, and made it dynamic, so that it would work with many different images. 
The Edit Photos tab also features FaceBook share and Tweet buttons so that the website 
has social media sharing ability. The css was a split effort as my partner and I worked 
on that at the same time. As a little added touch, I decided to give the webpage its 
own favicon for its browser tab, named favicon.ico. I made this file within photoshop.

contents:
	Editor.css
	final.css
	Editor.php
	favicon.ico
	Final.php
	Final2.php
	Final3.php
	Final4.php
	tab1.php
	tab2.php
	tab3.php
	tab4.php

All of these files with the exception of the tab files and the favicon file were made
by using code online (that will be specified below). The previously mentioned files 
were created entirely by my partner and I.

Distribution of Content:

Connor:
	lightbox (modal)
	image editor (camanjs)
	Webpage icon
	social media sharing
	Image saving (camanjs)

Orion:
	Basic website layout 
	Meshing code segments together
	Debugging/error checking

Both:
	Work on submission/deletion
	CSS and final page layout


Instructions:
1. Click on the different tabs to get to different parts of the application.
2. In Photos, click on the different thumbnails to view different images. 
3. Use the prev and next arrows to navigate through the portfolio. 
4. The add and delete tabs are unworing, so ignore those.
5. The Edit Photos tab works similar to the Photos tab, except when an image
   is pressed, a modal does not appear, instead the image will be displayed on 
   the page.
6. To edit the image, use the sliders and filter buttons to alter the image to
   your specifications. 
7. The four sliders are Hue, Contrast, Vibrance, and Sepia, and they update the 
   photo's respective attributes accordingly. 
8. The buttons apply filters to the image immediately, and can be pressed multiple 
   times to apply their alterations multiple times.
9. Once all alterations are made, then the photo can either be reset to it's original
   view, or saved to the user's machine.
10.Finally, the page can then be shared to either facebook or twitter via the 
   appropriate share button.


This is the unworking image uploading code source.
http://jsbin.com/uboqu3/1/edit?html

This is where the information for creating a facebook share button is.
https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/share-button

This is where the information to create a twitter tweet button is.
https://dev.twitter.com/web/javascript/loading

This was the staring code that was used to create our modal images, for the lightbox.
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modal_images.asp

This was the site that was used to start creating an image editor.
https://www.sitepoint.com/manipulating-images-web-pages-camanjs/





